content/impressum.en.md, before:

---
title: Imprint
meta: OKF DE Impressum, Vereinsadresse, Datenschutzerklärung
---

**Club address:**<br>
Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e.V.<br>
Singerstr. 109<br>
10179 Berlin</br>
Germany 

**E-mail:** info@okfn.de [<a href="/okf/info_okfn_de_pub.asc">OpenPGP</a>]<br>
**Phone:** +49 30 57 70 36 660<br>
**Fax:** +49 30 57 70 36 669

[OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/29386807) - [Google Maps](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Singerstra%C3%9Fe+109,+10179+Berlin/@52.5167261,13.4232556,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x47a84e3db119b3fd:0x9131b3b816d6709!8m2!3d52.5167261!4d13.4254443?hl=en)


**Register of Associations No:** VR 30468 B<br>
**VAT number:** DE278022128<br>
**Court of registration:** Amtsgericht Charlottenburg


**Technical:**
Static HTML generated with [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)


### Exclusion of Liability

Responsible for the context of this website in accordance with § 55 section 2 RStV is the respective author.

### Liability concerning contents

Although the content of this website has been prepared with our utmost care and diligence, we cannot assume liability for the correctness, completeness and latest status of the information provided. Pursuant to § 7, Para. 1 of the German Telemedia Act (TMG), as a service provider we are responsible under general law for our own contents on this website. Pursuant to §§ 8 through 10 TMG however we are not responsible as service providers to monitor transferred or stored information of third parties or to research circumstances that suggest an illegal activity. Obligations for the removal or barring of the use of information in accordance with legal regulations remain unaffected, even in the event of the service provider not being responsible. Any liability in this respect is, however, only incurred from the moment that knowledge of the specific breach of law is obtained. As soon as the relevant breaches of law are known, the contents which are open to exertion of influence will be removed immediately.

### Liability concerning links

Our offer contains links to external web pages of third parties, whose contents are not subject to our influence. For that reason we cannot take over guarantee for these external contents. For the contents of the linked sides always the respective offerer or operator of such sites. The linked sites were checked at the time of linking for possible violations of law. Illegal contents were not recognizable. A permanent control of the linked pages is unreasonable without concrete evidence of a violation. Upon notification of violations, we will remove such links immediately.

### Copyright

The by the site operators and content of this website to German copyright law. They are protected by a Creative Commons Licence. Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under the Attribution 3.0 Germany (CC BY 3.0 DE) Licence. Insofar as the content on this site is not created by the operator, the property rights of third parties apply. In particular, third party content is identified as such. Should you become aware of copyright infringement, we ask you to notify us. Upon notification of violations, we will remove the content immediately.

## Privacy Policy

The Open Knowledge Foundation Deutschland e.V., Singerstr. 109, 10179 Berlin Deutschland (hereinafter referred to as "Open Knowledge Foundation" or "we") operates the Internet site (hereinafter referred to as "okfn.de" or the "Website") which can be accessed on the Internet at https://okfn.de/ and the relevant subdirectories.

With this data protection declaration, the Open Knowledge Foundation would like to explain to you which data is processed in which form when you visit our website. This also complies with our duty to inform you in accordance with Art. 13 of the Basic Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

### I. Responsible person and contact possibilities of the data protection officer

The person responsible under data protection law for the data processing carried out on our website is the

Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e.V.
Singerstr. 109
10179 Berlin
Germany (German)

E-mail: info@okfn.de<br>
Phone: +49 30 57703666 0<br>
Fax: +49 30 57703666 9<br>

Our data protection officer can be reached at:

Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e.V.<br>
- Data protection officer -<br>
Singerstr. 109<br>
10179 Berlin<br>
Germany<br>
<br>
datenschutz@okfn.de [<a href="/okf/data_privacy_okfn_de_pub.asc">OpenPGP</a>]

Our external data protection officer is Beata-Konstanze Hubrig from the law firm https://kanzlei-hubrig.de/

For now, the information below is available only in German. 

### II. Personal data, purposes and legal basis of data processing

#### 1. Personal Data

According to the GDPR, personal data means "any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person."


#### 2. General Use of this Website

We do not collect nor record any personal data during your visit to our website.

Without prejudice to the principle reasons set out above, the webserver of our hoster does register access visits and your IP address automatically.

Additionally, our hoster creates logfiles to preserve system security. These logfiles contain the following information:

- the IP-address
- date of access
- the URL
- content which has been accessed
- the transferred information

This information remains anonymous for us. Hence, it is not possible for us to draw any conclusions about a specific person on the basis of the data collected.

If you contact us through the mail address provided on this website, you share your email address with us and possibly more information contained in your email. To process your request, we have to process this data.

#### 3. Purposes and Legal Basis of Data Processing

The processing of your IP address during the establishment of the connection takes place so that we can make our website available to you. It is based on Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f) GDPR. Our legitimate interest lies in the aforementioned purpose.

The processing in the context of an establishment of contact takes place, so that we can work on and answer your inquiry. The legal basis is Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f) GDPR. Our legitimate interest lies in the aforementioned purpose.


### III. Recipient of the Data

Within our organisation, the departments that are responsible for dealing with your concerns have access to your data. In addition, we use external service providers where we are unable to provide services ourselves or are unable to do so sensibly. These external service providers are primarily providers of IT services and telecommunications services.

A transfer to third countries does not take place in principle and only if it is necessary for the execution of your orders, is legally prescribed or you have given us your consent to this.

### IV. Duration of Storage	

We will store your e-mails and contacts for as long as is necessary to process your request and then store them for a period of 3 years if you contact us again with respect to your original question.

### V. Rights of Affected Persons

The GDPR guarantees you certain rights which you can assert against us - as far as the legal prerequisites are given.

- **Art. 15 GDPR – Right of access by the data subject**: You have the right to obtain from us confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning you are being processed, and, where that is the case, access to the personal data and the purposes of the processing.
- **Art. 16 GDPR – Right to rectification**: You have the right to obtain from us without undue delay the rectification of inaccurate personal data concerning yourself. Taking into account the purposes of the processing, you have the right to have incomplete personal data completed, including by means of providing a supplementary statement.
- **Art. 17 GDPR – Right to erasure (‘right to be forgotten’)**: You have the right to obtain from us the erasure of personal data concerning yourself without undue delay. Please take not of the exemption described in II. 4.
- **Art. 18 GDPR – Right to restriction of processing**: You have the right to obtain from us the restriction of processing.
- **Art. 20 GDPR – Right to data portability**: 
You have have the right to receive the personal data concerning yourself, which you have provided to us, in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format and have the right to transmit those data to another controller without hindrance from the controller to which the personal data have been provided, or to have us transmit the data to another controller as far as it is technically possible.
- **Art. 21 GDPR – Right to object**: You have the right to object at any time, for reasons related to your particular situation, to the processing of personal data concerning you which is necessary for a legitimate interest on our part or in the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority.


	If you file an objection, we will no longer process your personal data unless we can prove compelling reasons for the processing worthy of protection which outweigh your interests, rights and freedoms, or the processing serves the assertion, exercise or defence of legal claims.
    
    If we process your personal data in order to conduct direct advertising, you have the right to object to the processing at any time. If you object to the processing for purposes of direct marketing, we will no longer process your personal data for these purposes.
- **Art. 77 DSGVO in relation to § 19 Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) – Right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority**: You have the right to lodge a complaint at any time with a supervisory authority, in particular in the Member State where you are residing, at your place of work or at the place where the infringement is alleged, if you consider that the processing of your personal data is contrary to applicable law.

### VI. Obligation to provide data

You have no contractual or legal obligation to provide us with personal data. However, we are not able to offer you our services without the data you provide.

### VII. Existence of automated decision making (including profiling)

We do not use any automated decision making process that may have legal effects on you or adversely affect you.

### VIII. Internet Specific Data Processing

During the use of our Internet pages, we automatically record and evaluate technical access data. For this purpose we use the tool "Matomo" (formerly "Piwik"), an open source program for web analytics, which evaluates statistical parameters for the use of our website. However, this data cannot be assigned to a specific person; the individual user remains anonymous. Further information about "Matomo" can be found on the website https://matomo.org.

This data includes, for example

- The IP address shortened by the last two octets,
- Information about the Internet browser and operating system used,
- the domain name of the website from which a visit to our Internet pages is made,
- the average length of stay in our offer, and
- the pages called in our web site.

For the use of Matomo we use so-called "cookies". These are small text files that a web server can send to your computer to identify it for the duration of your visit. We use the two session cookies pk_ses and the persistent cookies pk_id and pk_ref. We do not collect any personal data from you via these cookies.

pk_ses is always deleted after your browser session has ended; only pk_id and pk_ref are persistent cookies that are persistent beyond a browser session and enable us to recognise when a user visits our site again. If you do not remove the cookie yourself, it is deleted automatically after 1 year or 6 months.

The presentation of our website is also possible without the storage of cookies. You can deactivate the storage of cookies in the settings of your browser or set it so that it informs you of the intended storage by an Internet page. In this case, you decide whether to accept the cookie.

In addition, by removing the [hook](https://traffic.okfn.de/index.php?module=CoreAdminHome&action=optOut&language=de), we can prevent Matomo from placing analysis cookies on your device. In this case, a cookie will be set to indicate to us that you have objected to its use.

Please note that the respective settings regarding cookies are only effective for your currently used device and your currently used browser. If you are using a different device or browser, you will usually have to change the settings again. We also support the "Do not Track" function of your browser. This allows you to actively tell us via your browser settings whether you wish your activities to be recorded or not. If you have activated "Do not Track", your activities will not be recorded.

The legal basis for the use of Matomo can be found in Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f) GDPR. Our justified interest consists in the fact that we evaluate the use of our Website for their improvement and optimization. The data collected in this way is stored for a period of 24 months.

### IX. If you have any comments or questions

We take all possible precautions to protect and secure your data. Your questions and comments on data protection are welcome, simply send an e-mail to info@okfn.de.

Berlin, April 2018

Commit message:

Remove analytic cookies from privacy declaration

content/impressum.en.md, after:

---
title: Imprint
meta: OKF DE Impressum, Vereinsadresse, Datenschutzerklärung
---

**Club address:**<br>
Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e.V.<br>
Singerstr. 109<br>
10179 Berlin</br>
Germany 

**E-mail:** info@okfn.de [<a href="/okf/info_okfn_de_pub.asc">OpenPGP</a>]<br>
**Phone:** +49 30 57 70 36 660<br>
**Fax:** +49 30 57 70 36 669

[OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/29386807) - [Google Maps](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Singerstra%C3%9Fe+109,+10179+Berlin/@52.5167261,13.4232556,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x47a84e3db119b3fd:0x9131b3b816d6709!8m2!3d52.5167261!4d13.4254443?hl=en)


**Register of Associations No:** VR 30468 B<br>
**VAT number:** DE278022128<br>
**Court of registration:** Amtsgericht Charlottenburg


**Technical:**
Static HTML generated with [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)


### Exclusion of Liability

Responsible for the context of this website in accordance with § 55 section 2 RStV is the respective author.

### Liability concerning contents

Although the content of this website has been prepared with our utmost care and diligence, we cannot assume liability for the correctness, completeness and latest status of the information provided. Pursuant to § 7, Para. 1 of the German Telemedia Act (TMG), as a service provider we are responsible under general law for our own contents on this website. Pursuant to §§ 8 through 10 TMG however we are not responsible as service providers to monitor transferred or stored information of third parties or to research circumstances that suggest an illegal activity. Obligations for the removal or barring of the use of information in accordance with legal regulations remain unaffected, even in the event of the service provider not being responsible. Any liability in this respect is, however, only incurred from the moment that knowledge of the specific breach of law is obtained. As soon as the relevant breaches of law are known, the contents which are open to exertion of influence will be removed immediately.

### Liability concerning links

Our offer contains links to external web pages of third parties, whose contents are not subject to our influence. For that reason we cannot take over guarantee for these external contents. For the contents of the linked sides always the respective offerer or operator of such sites. The linked sites were checked at the time of linking for possible violations of law. Illegal contents were not recognizable. A permanent control of the linked pages is unreasonable without concrete evidence of a violation. Upon notification of violations, we will remove such links immediately.

### Copyright

The by the site operators and content of this website to German copyright law. They are protected by a Creative Commons Licence. Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under the Attribution 3.0 Germany (CC BY 3.0 DE) Licence. Insofar as the content on this site is not created by the operator, the property rights of third parties apply. In particular, third party content is identified as such. Should you become aware of copyright infringement, we ask you to notify us. Upon notification of violations, we will remove the content immediately.

## Privacy Policy

The Open Knowledge Foundation Deutschland e.V., Singerstr. 109, 10179 Berlin Deutschland (hereinafter referred to as "Open Knowledge Foundation" or "we") operates the Internet site (hereinafter referred to as "okfn.de" or the "Website") which can be accessed on the Internet at https://okfn.de/ and the relevant subdirectories.

With this data protection declaration, the Open Knowledge Foundation would like to explain to you which data is processed in which form when you visit our website. This also complies with our duty to inform you in accordance with Art. 13 of the Basic Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

### I. Responsible person and contact possibilities of the data protection officer

The person responsible under data protection law for the data processing carried out on our website is the

Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e.V.
Singerstr. 109
10179 Berlin
Germany (German)

E-mail: info@okfn.de<br>
Phone: +49 30 57703666 0<br>
Fax: +49 30 57703666 9<br>

Our data protection officer can be reached at:

Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e.V.<br>
- Data protection officer -<br>
Singerstr. 109<br>
10179 Berlin<br>
Germany<br>
<br>
datenschutz@okfn.de [<a href="/okf/data_privacy_okfn_de_pub.asc">OpenPGP</a>]

Our external data protection officer is Beata-Konstanze Hubrig from the law firm https://kanzlei-hubrig.de/

For now, the information below is available only in German. 

### II. Personal data, purposes and legal basis of data processing

#### 1. Personal Data

According to the GDPR, personal data means "any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person."


#### 2. General Use of this Website

We do not collect nor record any personal data during your visit to our website.

Without prejudice to the principle reasons set out above, the webserver of our hoster does register access visits and your IP address automatically.

Additionally, our hoster creates logfiles to preserve system security. These logfiles contain the following information:

- the IP-address
- date of access
- the URL
- content which has been accessed
- the transferred information

This information remains anonymous for us. Hence, it is not possible for us to draw any conclusions about a specific person on the basis of the data collected.

If you contact us through the mail address provided on this website, you share your email address with us and possibly more information contained in your email. To process your request, we have to process this data.

#### 3. Purposes and Legal Basis of Data Processing

The processing of your IP address during the establishment of the connection takes place so that we can make our website available to you. It is based on Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f) GDPR. Our legitimate interest lies in the aforementioned purpose.

The processing in the context of an establishment of contact takes place, so that we can work on and answer your inquiry. The legal basis is Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f) GDPR. Our legitimate interest lies in the aforementioned purpose.


### III. Recipient of the Data

Within our organisation, the departments that are responsible for dealing with your concerns have access to your data. In addition, we use external service providers where we are unable to provide services ourselves or are unable to do so sensibly. These external service providers are primarily providers of IT services and telecommunications services.

A transfer to third countries does not take place in principle and only if it is necessary for the execution of your orders, is legally prescribed or you have given us your consent to this.

### IV. Duration of Storage	

We will store your e-mails and contacts for as long as is necessary to process your request and then store them for a period of 3 years if you contact us again with respect to your original question.

### V. Rights of Affected Persons

The GDPR guarantees you certain rights which you can assert against us - as far as the legal prerequisites are given.

- **Art. 15 GDPR – Right of access by the data subject**: You have the right to obtain from us confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning you are being processed, and, where that is the case, access to the personal data and the purposes of the processing.
- **Art. 16 GDPR – Right to rectification**: You have the right to obtain from us without undue delay the rectification of inaccurate personal data concerning yourself. Taking into account the purposes of the processing, you have the right to have incomplete personal data completed, including by means of providing a supplementary statement.
- **Art. 17 GDPR – Right to erasure (‘right to be forgotten’)**: You have the right to obtain from us the erasure of personal data concerning yourself without undue delay. Please take not of the exemption described in II. 4.
- **Art. 18 GDPR – Right to restriction of processing**: You have the right to obtain from us the restriction of processing.
- **Art. 20 GDPR – Right to data portability**: 
You have have the right to receive the personal data concerning yourself, which you have provided to us, in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format and have the right to transmit those data to another controller without hindrance from the controller to which the personal data have been provided, or to have us transmit the data to another controller as far as it is technically possible.
- **Art. 21 GDPR – Right to object**: You have the right to object at any time, for reasons related to your particular situation, to the processing of personal data concerning you which is necessary for a legitimate interest on our part or in the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority.


	If you file an objection, we will no longer process your personal data unless we can prove compelling reasons for the processing worthy of protection which outweigh your interests, rights and freedoms, or the processing serves the assertion, exercise or defence of legal claims.
    
    If we process your personal data in order to conduct direct advertising, you have the right to object to the processing at any time. If you object to the processing for purposes of direct marketing, we will no longer process your personal data for these purposes.
- **Art. 77 DSGVO in relation to § 19 Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) – Right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority**: You have the right to lodge a complaint at any time with a supervisory authority, in particular in the Member State where you are residing, at your place of work or at the place where the infringement is alleged, if you consider that the processing of your personal data is contrary to applicable law.

### VI. Obligation to provide data

You have no contractual or legal obligation to provide us with personal data. However, we are not able to offer you our services without the data you provide.

### VII. Existence of automated decision making (including profiling)

We do not use any automated decision making process that may have legal effects on you or adversely affect you.

### VIII. Internet Specific Data Processing

During the use of our Internet pages, we automatically record and evaluate technical access data. For this purpose we use the tool "Matomo" (formerly "Piwik"), an open source program for web analytics, which evaluates statistical parameters for the use of our website. However, this data cannot be assigned to a specific person; the individual user remains anonymous. Further information about "Matomo" can be found on the website https://matomo.org.

This data includes, for example

- The IP address shortened by the last two octets,
- Information about the Internet browser and operating system used,
- the domain name of the website from which a visit to our Internet pages is made,
- the average length of stay in our offer, and
- the pages called in our web site.

In addition, by removing the [check mark on this site](https://traffic.okfn.de/index.php?module=CoreAdminHome&action=optOut&language=de), we can prevent Matomo from counting your visit at all. In this case, a cookie will be set to indicate to us that you have objected to its use.

Please note that the respective settings regarding cookies are only effective for your currently used device and your currently used browser. If you are using a different device or browser, you will usually have to change the settings again. We also support the "Do not Track" function of your browser. This allows you to actively tell us via your browser settings whether you wish your activities to be recorded or not. If you have activated "Do not Track", your activities will not be recorded.

The legal basis for the use of Matomo can be found in Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f) GDPR. Our justified interest consists in the fact that we evaluate the use of our Website for their improvement and optimization. The data collected in this way is stored for a period of 24 months.

### IX. If you have any comments or questions

We take all possible precautions to protect and secure your data. Your questions and comments on data protection are welcome, simply send an e-mail to info@okfn.de.

Berlin, Mai 2020
