content/transparenz.en.md, before:

---
title: Transparency
meta: Voluntary transparency information about the organisation
img_header: /okf/transparenz-social-og.png
---

### 1. Name, registered office, address and year of incorporation

Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e.V. <br>
Register of associations: <br>
Singerstr. 109 <br>
D-10179 Berlin <br>

Register of associations no.: VR 30468 B <br>
The Open Knowledge Foundation Deutschland e.V. was founded in 2011.

### 2. Complete statutes as well as information on the organisational goals
The statutes of the Open Knowledge Foundation Deutschland e.V. can be found [here](/files/documents/01_Satzung.pdf).


### 3. Information on tax relief
Our work is exempt from corporation tax pursuant to § 5 para. 1 no. 9 of the Corporation Tax Act and from trade tax pursuant to § 3 no. 6 of the Trade Tax Act due to the promotion of science and research as well as the promotion of popular and vocational education as well as student assistance pursuant to the last [exemption notice](/files/documents/FreistellungsbescheidOKF_2018.pdf) received by us from the Tax Office for Corporations I, Berlin dated 05.08.2019.

A current extract from the register of associations of 2018 can be found [here](/files/documents/Vereinsregisterauszug_OKFDE_2018.pdf).

### 4. Name and function of essential decision makers
At the 2018 general meeting, Andreas Pawelke was elected chairman of the board, Lucy Chambers deputy chairman. Kristina Klein was elected treasurer for a period of two years in the 2017 general meeting. Further board members are Daniel Dietrich and Jana Wichmann. Until June 2019, Nadine Evers had been managing director of the association.

#### Ethics Officer
Our current OKF Ethics Officer ist Giulia Norberti. Questions regarding ethics and the code of conduct can be directed to ethics@okfn.de .

#### Data protection officer
Our external data protection officer is Beata-Konstanze Hubrig from [Rechtsanwaltskanzlei Hubrig](https://kanzlei-hubrig.de/).

### 5. Annual report

[Annual Report 2018](https://2018.okfn.de/) <br>
[Annual Report 2017](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2017.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2016](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2016.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2015](/files/documents/OKFDE-Annualreport-2015.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2014](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2014.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2013](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2013.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2012](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2012.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2011](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2011.pdf)


### 6. Personnel structure

#### Team members 2018

Adriana Groh, Andrej Sandorf, Anna Alberts, Arne Semsrott, Bela Seeger, Cin Pietschmann, Doris Jantoljak, Edgar Zanella Alvarenga, Elisabeth Lindiger, Ernesto Ruge, Fiona Krakenbürger, Giulia Norberti, Gregor Gilka, Helene Hahn, Jasmin Helm, Jessica Binsch, Jenny Gebske, John David Langlo, Juliane Krüger, Juliane Wessalowski, Katharina Meyer, Knut Perseke, Lea Pfau, Lea Schubert, Leonard Wolf, Lisa Passing, Lydia Böttcher, Mara Mendes, Markus Neuschäfer, Matthias Löwe, Maximilian Richt, Maximiian Voigt, Michael Peters, Moritz Neujeffski, Nadine Evers, Nadine Stammen, Paula Grünwald (geb. Glaser), Philip Steffan, Rebecca Varghese Buchholz, Saadya Windauer, Sebastian Schröder, Sonja Fischbauer, Stefan Wehrmeyer, Tanja Zagel, Thomas Friese, Torben Reichert, Walter Palmetshofer

### 7. & 8. Information on source & use of funds

[Balance Sheet and audit report 2018] (/files/documents/OKF-DE-BilanzundWPBericht-2018.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2017](/files/documents/OKF-DE-Gerinnermittlung-kurz-2017.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2016](/files/documents/OKF-DE-Germsermittlung-kurz-2016.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2015](/files/documents/OKF-EN-Gerufermittlung-kurz-2015.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2014](/files/documents/OKF-DE-Germsermittlung-kurz-2014.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2013](/files/documents/OKF-EN-EN-Gerinnermittlung-kurz-2013.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2012](/files/documents/OKF-DE-Germsermittlung-kurz-2012.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2011](/files/documents/OKF-DE-Profit-Accounting-short--2011.pdf)

### 9. Coroporate solidarity with third parties
There is a [Memorandum of Understanding](/files/documents/05_Memorandum_of_Understanding.pdf) with [Open Knowledge International](https://okfn.org/).<br>
Neither private nor legal persons hold shares in our association. This would not be possible. There is no membership in any other organisation, we are not legally affiliated with any organisation, and hold no shares in any other organisation.

### 10. Names of legal entities whose annual payments account for more than 10% of the total annual budget.

Funding from the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth to finance the Democracy Labs accounts for 33% of the total annual budget for 2018.

Funding from the Federal Ministry of Education and Research to finance the Prototype Fund accounts for 16.8% and further projects accounts (edulabs, TuringBus and Jugend hackt) for another 9.2% of the total annual budget for 2018.

Commit message:

update add text anual report

content/transparenz.en.md, after:

---
title: Transparency
meta: Voluntary transparency information about the organisation
img_header: /okf/transparenz-social-og.png
---

### 1. Name, registered office, address and year of incorporation

Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e.V. <br>
Register of associations: <br>
Singerstr. 109 <br>
D-10179 Berlin <br>

Register of associations no.: VR 30468 B <br>
The Open Knowledge Foundation Deutschland e.V. was founded in 2011.

### 2. Complete statutes as well as information on the organisational goals
The statutes of the Open Knowledge Foundation Deutschland e.V. can be found [here](/files/documents/01_Satzung.pdf).


### 3. Information on tax relief
Our work is exempt from corporation tax pursuant to § 5 para. 1 no. 9 of the Corporation Tax Act and from trade tax pursuant to § 3 no. 6 of the Trade Tax Act due to the promotion of science and research as well as the promotion of popular and vocational education as well as student assistance pursuant to the last [exemption notice](/files/documents/FreistellungsbescheidOKF_2018.pdf) received by us from the Tax Office for Corporations I, Berlin dated 05.08.2019.

A current extract from the register of associations of 2018 can be found [here](/files/documents/Vereinsregisterauszug_OKFDE_2018.pdf).

### 4. Name and function of essential decision makers
At the 2018 general meeting, Andreas Pawelke was elected chairman of the board, Lucy Chambers deputy chairman. Kristina Klein was elected treasurer for a period of two years in the 2017 general meeting. Further board members are Daniel Dietrich and Jana Wichmann. Until June 2019, Nadine Evers had been managing director of the association.

#### Ethics Officer
Our current OKF Ethics Officer ist Giulia Norberti. Questions regarding ethics and the code of conduct can be directed to ethics@okfn.de .

#### Data protection officer
Our external data protection officer is Beata-Konstanze Hubrig from [Rechtsanwaltskanzlei Hubrig](https://kanzlei-hubrig.de/).

### 5. Annual report
Transparancy has be lived and not just demanded, and thus, since 2017, we provide our annual financial an activity report following the guidelines of the Social Reporting Standard.
[Annual Report 2018](https://2018.okfn.de/) <br>
[Annual Report 2017](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2017.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2016](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2016.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2015](/files/documents/OKFDE-Annualreport-2015.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2014](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2014.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2013](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2013.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2012](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2012.pdf) <br>
[Annual Report 2011](/files/documents/OKFDE-Taetigkeitsbericht-2011.pdf)


### 6. Personnel structure

#### Team members 2018

Adriana Groh, Andrej Sandorf, Anna Alberts, Arne Semsrott, Bela Seeger, Cin Pietschmann, Doris Jantoljak, Edgar Zanella Alvarenga, Elisabeth Lindiger, Ernesto Ruge, Fiona Krakenbürger, Giulia Norberti, Gregor Gilka, Helene Hahn, Jasmin Helm, Jessica Binsch, Jenny Gebske, John David Langlo, Juliane Krüger, Juliane Wessalowski, Katharina Meyer, Knut Perseke, Lea Pfau, Lea Schubert, Leonard Wolf, Lisa Passing, Lydia Böttcher, Mara Mendes, Markus Neuschäfer, Matthias Löwe, Maximilian Richt, Maximiian Voigt, Michael Peters, Moritz Neujeffski, Nadine Evers, Nadine Stammen, Paula Grünwald (geb. Glaser), Philip Steffan, Rebecca Varghese Buchholz, Saadya Windauer, Sebastian Schröder, Sonja Fischbauer, Stefan Wehrmeyer, Tanja Zagel, Thomas Friese, Torben Reichert, Walter Palmetshofer

### 7. & 8. Information on source & use of funds

[Balance Sheet and audit report 2018] (/files/documents/OKF-DE-BilanzundWPBericht-2018.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2017](/files/documents/OKF-DE-Gerinnermittlung-kurz-2017.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2016](/files/documents/OKF-DE-Germsermittlung-kurz-2016.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2015](/files/documents/OKF-EN-Gerufermittlung-kurz-2015.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2014](/files/documents/OKF-DE-Germsermittlung-kurz-2014.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2013](/files/documents/OKF-EN-EN-Gerinnermittlung-kurz-2013.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2012](/files/documents/OKF-DE-Germsermittlung-kurz-2012.pdf) <br>
[Profit and Loss Report 2011](/files/documents/OKF-DE-Profit-Accounting-short--2011.pdf)

### 9. Coroporate solidarity with third parties
There is a [Memorandum of Understanding](/files/documents/05_Memorandum_of_Understanding.pdf) with [Open Knowledge International](https://okfn.org/).<br>
Neither private nor legal persons hold shares in our association. This would not be possible. There is no membership in any other organisation, we are not legally affiliated with any organisation, and hold no shares in any other organisation.

### 10. Names of legal entities whose annual payments account for more than 10% of the total annual budget.

Funding from the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth to finance the Democracy Labs accounts for 33% of the total annual budget for 2018.

Funding from the Federal Ministry of Education and Research to finance the Prototype Fund accounts for 16.8% and further projects accounts (edulabs, TuringBus and Jugend hackt) for another 9.2% of the total annual budget for 2018.
