content/projekte/prototypefund.en.md, before:

---
title: Prototype Fund
subtitle: 47.500€ for your public interest tech idea
type: research
categories:
  - Civic Tech
  - Community
tile: double
website: https://prototypefund.de
img: projects/PrototypeFund_Projektuebersicht_bigTile.png
img_square: projects/prototypefund_square.jpg
img_header: projects/PrototypeFund_Header.png
layout: project
weight: 4
type: featured
people:
  - name: Marie Gutbub
    role: Project Co-Leadership
  - name: Patricia Leu
    role: Project Co-Leadership
  - name: Claudia Jach
    role: Research
  - name: Gregor Gilka
financing:
  - BMBF
contact_person: patricialeu
contact_alternate_email: info@prototypefund.de
years: 2016 - today
website: https://prototypefund.de
contact:
  twitter: PrototypeFund
  github: https://github.com/prototypefund
  mailinglist: http://eepurl.com/b_rDS1
  mastodon:
    handle: PrototypeFund
    server: mastodon.social

cta: Mitmachen
cta_text: |-
     You can apply for the Prototype Fund every 6 months. You can find all the information you need <a href="https://prototypefund.de/faq/">here</a>.
more_text: |-
    Further information can be found on the <a href="https://prototypefund.de">website</a> of the Prototype Fund.
---
The Prototype Fund supports socially relevant software projects and increases their sustainable impact by open sourcing as a principle. In short: __We support Public Interest Tech.__

We make digital-social innovation possible with developers that bring a wide range of skills in technology design.
With up to 47,500 euros per project and team, the Prototype Fund supports software developers, hackers and creatives in building protptypes for tools and applications in the areas of civic tech, data literacy, IT security and software infrastructure.

In addition to financial support, we offer mentorship and coaching along the way and exchange ideas with our extensive and diverse network of coders, practitioners and potential users.

The application process is kept as unbureaucratic as possible and adapted to the needs of the self-employed. To date, we have already spent 10 million euros on 248 projects (status: December 2021). The programme runs over a total of 16 funding rounds until 2024.

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/MOGdX7ipcu8" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

Updated prototypefund.en.md to status of october 23

content/projekte/prototypefund.en.md, after:

---
title: Prototype Fund
subtitle: 47.500€ for your public interest tech idea
type: research
categories:
  - Civic Tech
  - Community
tile: double
website: https://prototypefund.de
img: projects/PrototypeFund_Projektuebersicht_bigTile.png
img_square: projects/prototypefund_square.jpg
img_header: projects/PrototypeFund_Header.png
layout: project
weight: 4
type: featured
people:
  - name: Marie Kreil
    role: Project Co-Leadership
  - name: Patricia Leu
    role: Project Co-Leadership
  - name: Sophia Schulze Schleithoff
    role: Research
  - name: Francesca Giacco
    role: Student Assistant
  - name: Paul Robben
    role: Communication and project management
financing:
  - BMBF
contact_person: patricialeu
contact_alternate_email: info@prototypefund.de
years: 2016 - today
website: https://prototypefund.de
contact:
  twitter: PrototypeFund
  github: https://github.com/prototypefund
  mailinglist: http://eepurl.com/b_rDS1
  mastodon:
    handle: PrototypeFund
    server: mastodon.social

cta: Mitmachen
cta_text: |-
     You can apply for the Prototype Fund every 6 months. You can find all the information you need <a href="https://prototypefund.de/faq/">here</a>.
more_text: |-
    Further information can be found on the <a href="https://prototypefund.de">website</a> of the Prototype Fund.
---
The Prototype Fund supports socially relevant software projects and increases their sustainable impact by open sourcing as a principle. In short: __We support Public Interest Tech.__

We make digital-social innovation possible with developers that bring a wide range of skills in technology design.
With up to 47,500 euros per project and team, the Prototype Fund supports software developers, hackers and creatives in building protptypes for tools and applications in the areas of civic tech, data literacy, IT security and software infrastructure.

In addition to financial support, we offer mentorship and coaching along the way and exchange ideas with our extensive and diverse network of coders, practitioners and potential users.

The application process is kept as unbureaucratic as possible and adapted to the needs of the self-employed. To date, we have already spent 14.4 million euros on 340 projects (status: October 2023). The programm runs over a total of 16 funding rounds until 2024.

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/MOGdX7ipcu8" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
